# Code Curious Elixir Meeting 2019-10-17

## Attendees

- Angelika (taking notes)
- Jens (moderating)
- Luisa
- Markus
- Nicolo

## Topics discussed

### Low attendance

- Drop from 9 to 5 attendees.
- Continuing trend from the last meeting.
- Even less decision power than last meeting.
- **If that low attendance continues, we are unable to work on two workshops in parallel**.
- Possible causes:
    - Meeting was not communicated clearly, Kaja is too busy to take care of this.
    - ...?
- Solution:
    - Nicolo volunteered to take care of doing the Doodle and informing everyone of the results of the Doodle
    - The Doodle will be created within a few days of this meeting.
    
### Check last meeting's TODO

- > we will meet again in two weeks
    - It took us over 1 month.
- > it's also possible to stream the meeting / join the meeting remotely if necessary
    - It wasn't possible, the meeting took place this time in a space without a good setup for remote meetings, there wasn't even a projector.
- > people will present tutorials / ideas for Nerves, Phoenix and Scenic
    - Ideas were presented for a beginner's workshop with Phoenix, and intermediate workshop with Scenic.
- > people will already share link to tutorials in Slack upfront so that others can try them / be prepared for discussing them 
    - Didn't happen upfront, should happen after the meeting.
- > based on the tutorials we'll start putting them into guides
    - Didn't happen before or during the meeting, should happen after the meeting.

### Ideas for workshops

- Two new ideas for workshops were presented
- Jens presented an idea for a Snake game using Scenic (intermediate).
- Nicolo presented an idea for a clone of the RailsGirls Ideas app using Phoenix and ETS.
- The details of those projects are described at the end of those notes in the "Outcome" section.

### Terminology clarification

- People are still unsure about the difference between beginners and intermediate.
- We defined them as:
    - **Beginners**:
        - own a computer,
        - likely to be running Windows and never have seen Linux/macOS,
        - likely to never have seen a line of code in their lives.
    - **Intermediate**:
        - either running Linux/macOS or capable of emulating one on their own machine,
        - have experience with at least one programming language,
        - likely to never have seen a line of Elixir and not to know any FP concepts.
        
### Can we commit to a workshop in December?

- Kaja asked if that's possible.
- Too few people to make a commitment for the whole group.
- Unlikely as we don't have a definitive decision about the level and the curriculum of the first workshop.

### Elixir Girls (elixirgirls.com)

- It's a group that already organized an Elixir workshop in Australia and Poland.
- Some of us (Jens, Angelika) talked with them (the Polish group) during Code BEAM Lite Berlin 2019.
- Angelika committed to being a coach for their second workshop in Poznań, Poland (29-30 November) and is on their Slack workspace.
- We reviewed their guides from elixirgirls.com.
    - It's a chat app, implemented in Phoenix, with Channels, PostgresSQL, also includes a bit of JavaScript code with jQuery.
    - Seem too advanced for a beginners workshop.
    - Seem to not have been updated for a year.
- We want to ask them a few questions about their experiences from last year, especially about our worries with regard to total beginners and some technologies.
    - **Angelika will collect questions from the whole group until Monday evening** (21.10 17:00), and will try to get answers from Elixir Girls via their Slack workspace.
    - Questions so far:
        - Do beginners have any problems installing PostgreSQL?
        - Do total beginners really build the Slackir app during the workshop? If yes, how did they do? Weren't then confused by channels and mixing JavaScript in there?
        
## Outcome

- Biggest blocker is lack of decision about the topic for the first workshop, partially caused by low attendance leading to doubts about how fair it is to make a definitive decision with so few people.
- Thus, we are announcing that **next meeting, a decision about the topic and level for the first workshop will be made, regardless of attendance**.
- Below is a list of possible choices. No new topics will be considered, one of those will be chosen.
- Everyone should familiarize themselves with those ideas before the next meeting. Please ask questions in Slack and collect resources about/for the ideas.
- **The attendees of this meeting unanimously committing to the Snake idea for an intermediate workshop as our first workshop** but weren't comfortable forcing this decision onto the whole group at that time. 

### 1. Nerves Project (Intermediate)

Proposed by Luca.

#### Technologies

- Nerves
- Phoenix
- Raspberry Pi
- Sensors

#### Resources

???

#### Pros

- More interesting than a typical web app.
- Visual results.

#### Cons

- Not a lot of code, lots of configuration.
- Requires special hardware for every attendee, and coaches that want to prepare for the topic.
- Does't work on Windows (but that's ok for this level).

### 2. Snake (Intermediate)

Proposed by Jens.

#### Technologies

- Scenic

#### Resources

- [github.com/jvf/elixir_snake](https://github.com/jvf/elixir_snake).
- Idea based on [this tutorial](https://blog.usejournal.com/elixir-scenic-snake-game-b8616b1d7ee0).

#### Pros

- A lot of Elixir code with the important data structures, the framework is in the background.
- Visual results.
- Fun and interactive.
- Easy to split into implementation steps.

#### Cons

- Does't work on Windows (but that's ok for this level).
- May be too much code for some intermediate attendees.

### 3. Elixir Girl's chat app Slackir (Intermediate)

#### Technologies

- Phoenix
- Phoenix Channels (websockets)
- JavaScript + jQuery

Could be adapted to use LiveView instead of Channels, to get rid of the JavaScript part.

#### Resources

- [Elixir Girls guides](https://elixirgirls.com/guides/)

#### Pros

- Already prepared.
- Interactive.
- Can make a big impression when many attendees will chat with one another on one attendee's implementation.

#### Cons

- Might require fixes and submitting fixes to another group's guides might have more friction than doing our own. 

### 4. Rails Girls Ideas app clone (Beginners)

Proposed by Nicolo and Markus.

#### Technologies

- Phoenix
- ets

ets could be hidden in a module that we ask the candidates to use as given, and/or replaced with dets for permanent storage, or replaces with an Agent to avoid Erlang, or replaced with PostgreSQL if decided that Ecto and installing PostgreSQL is not too difficult for beginners.

#### Resources

- [Rails Girls guide](https://guides.railsgirls.com/app)

#### Pros

- Battle-tested app idea.
- Can simplify a lot of steps with Phoenix resource generators.

#### Cons

- ets is Erlang and can confuse beginners.
- Ecto is not very beginner-friendly.
